middleware 1.3.41 (#88)
fiskaltrust/release-notes: middleware/2022-11-02-1.3.41.md

---
authors: poscreator
slug: middleware/1.3.41
tags: [Middleware, Germany]
---

# Middleware 1.3.41 (Germany)

> In this version of the Middleware, we have increased the default fiskaly timeout to enable longer TAR export to be performed, we have also reworked the Android launcher and the Swissbit SCU. And  we have increased the default timeout of the helipad helper as well as added a new configuration parameter regarding the readcount for the journalDE entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this version of the Middleware, we have increased the default fiskaly client timeout to enable longer TAR exports to be performed, we have also reworked the Android launcher and the Swissbit SCU. We have increased the default timeout of the helipad helper as well as added a new configuration parameter regarding the readcount for the journalDE entries.
```

> In this version of the Middleware, we have increased the default fiskaly timeout to enable longer TAR export to be performed, we have also reworked the Android launcher and the Swissbit SCU. And  we have increased the default timeout of the helipad helper as well as added a new configuration parameter regarding the readcount for the journalDE entries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this version of the Middleware, we have increased the default fiskaly timeout to enable longer TAR export to be performed successfully, and improved the Arm compatibility of the Swissbit and SQLite packages. Additionally, we have increased the default timeout of the Helipad helper as well as added a new configuration parameter to specify the concurrent upload count of TAR files.
```

> Additionally, we have added ARMEL support to our SQLite packages. And finally we have created a script which helps generating indexes for MySQL databases used in a bring your own data center environment.

Reviewer 2: With the change above and Paul's comment in slack, I think that would not be needed anymore 😅

<!--truncate-->

:::caution

Version 1.3 of the Middleware is meant for the German market only, customers in Austria and France should continue to use version 1.2. We will unify these experiences in an upcoming version.

:::

## Feature: Fiskalyclient timeout increased

> We have increased the default Fiskalyclient timeout because in some cases the default timeout was too short to perform TAR export leading up to timout errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have increased the default Fiskalyclient timeout because in some cases the default timeout was too short to perform long lasting TAR exports leading up to timeout errors.
```

> We have increased the default Fiskalyclient timeout because in some cases the default timeout was too short to perform TAR export leading up to timout errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have increased the default fiskaly client timeout because in some cases the default timeout was too short to download the results of large TAR exports, leading up to timout errors.
```

### Affected packages:

- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.Fiskaly v1.3.41_

> ## Feature: Android launcher rework

Reviewer 2: This is not really relevant to our users, I think there's no need to mention this

We have removed the GRPC core package from the Android launcher to avoid unnecessary blockage when releasing future versions of the andoird launcher.

### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.androidlauncher.grpc v1.3.41_

## Feature: Swissbit SCU restructuration including ARM support

> We have reworked the Swissbit SCU to include ARM support, we also have made the Swissbit SCU parameters case-insensitive, this should boost stability and prevent any conflict from dependancies when releasing future versions of the Swissbit SCU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have reworked the Swissbit SCU to include ARM support, we also have made the Swissbit SCU parameters case-insensitive, this should boost stability and prevent any conflict from dependencies when releasing future versions of the Swissbit SCU.
```

### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.Swissbit v1.3.41_

## Feature: Helipad default timeout increased and new configuration parameter

> We have increased the default timeout of the helipad, we have also introduced a parameter to configure the readcount for the journalDE entries via a key pair value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have increased the default timeout of the Helipad helper (which is responsible for uploading receipt data to our cloud), and have also introduced a parameter to configure the read count for the JournalDE entries (which contain the exported TAR files from the TSE). The parameter is called `recordcountjournalde` (default value: `1`).
```

> We have increased the default timeout of the helipad, we have also introduced a parameter to configure the readcount for the journalDE entries via a key pair value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have increased the default timeout of the helipad and made it possible to configure the readcount for the journalDE entries by adding the key value parameter `recordcountjournalde`.
```

### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Helper.Helipad v1.3.41_

> ## Feature: ARMEL support in SQLite 

Reviewer 2: I think the official spelling is `ARMel`
